README.md, before:

# HF-Waitress

HF-Waitress is a powerful and flexible server application for deploying and interacting with Hugging Face Transformers models. It simplifies the process of running open-source Large Language Models (LLMs) locally, addressing common pain points in model deployment and usage.

## Key Features

- **On-the-fly, in-place quantization**: Supports int8 & int4 quantization via BitsAndBytes.
- **Model Agnosticism**: Compatible with any HF-Transformers format LLM.
- **Configuration Management**: Uses `config.json` to store settings, allowing for easy configuration and persistence across runs.
- **Error Handling**: Detailed logging and traceback reporting via centralized error-handling functions.
- **Health Endpoint**: Provides valuable information about the loaded model and server health.
- **Concurrency Control**: Uses semaphores for selective concurrency while taking advantage of semaphore-native queueing.
- **Streaming Responses**: Supports both standard and streaming completions.

## Dependencies

1. Python v3.10.x or above

2. PyTorch:

    **If you're planning to use your GPU to run LLMs, make sure to install the GPU drivers and CUDA/ROCm toolkits as appropriate for your setup, and only then proceed with PyTorch setup below**

    Download and install the PyTorch version appropriate for your system: https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/

3. (optional) If attempting to use Flash Attention 2, specific Nvidia GPUs are required. Check the [official-repo](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/flash-attention?tab=readme-ov-file#installation-and-features) for requirements and installation instructions.

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/abgulati/hf-waitress
    cd hf-waitress
    ```

2. Install the required dependencies:

    ```
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Usage

To start the server, run:

```
python hf_waitress.py [arguments]
```
*launch-arguments are optional, even on the first run!*

### Command-line Arguments

- `--model_id`: The model ID in HF-Transformers format - see below for details.
- `--access_gated`: Set to True if accessing gated models you're approved for.
- `--access_token`: Your Hugging Face Access Token.
- `--quantize`: Quantization method (e.g., 'bitsandbytes' or 'n' for none).
- `--quant_level`: Quantization level (e.g., 'int8', 'int4').
- `--push_to_hub`: Push quantized model to Hugging Face Hub.
- `--torch_device_map`: Specify inference device (e.g., 'cuda', 'cpu').
- `--torch_dtype`: Specify model tensor type.
- `--trust_remote_code`: Allow execution of custom code from the model's repository.
- `--use_flash_attention_2`: Attempt to use Flash Attention 2 - [Only for specific Nvidia GPUs](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/flash-attention?tab=readme-ov-file#installation-and-features) 
- `--pipeline_task`: Specify the pipeline task (default: 'text-generation').
- `--max_new_tokens`: Maximum number of tokens to generate.
- `--return_full_text`: Return the full text including the prompt.
- `--temperature`: Set LLM temperature (0.0 to 2.0).
- `--do_sample`: Perform sampling when selecting response tokens.
- `--top_k`, `--top_p`, `--min_p`: Token selection parameters.
- `--port`: Specify the server port (default: 9069).
- `--reset_to_defaults`: Reset all settings to default values.

### The required `model_id` can typically be obtained one of two ways, both of which involve going to the model's HuggingFace.co page:

1. Simply make use of the copy function provided by HuggingFace:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/abgulati/hf-server/blob/main/images/hf-copy.png"  align="center">
</p>

2. Or, scroll further down the model card and copy the model_id from the code sample provided by the model creators:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/abgulati/hf-server/blob/main/images/hf-sample.png"  align="center">
</p>

## API Endpoints

### Overview:

1. `/completions` (POST): Generate completions for given messages.
2. `/completions_stream` (POST): Stream completions for given messages.
3. `/health` (GET): Check the health and get information about the loaded model.
4. `/hf_config_reader_api` (POST): Read values from the configuration.
5. `/hf_config_writer_api` (POST): Write values to the configuration.
6. `/restart_server` (GET): Restart the LLM server.


### Details:

1. `/completions` (POST): Generate completions for given messages.

    - **Headers**:
    - `Content-Type: application/json`
    - `X-Max-New-Tokens`: Maximum number of tokens to generate
    - `X-Return-Full-Text`: Whether to return the full text including the prompt
    - `X-Temperature`: Temperature for text generation (0.0 to 2.0)
    - `X-Do-Sample`: Whether to use sampling for text generation
    - `X-Top-K`: Top-K sampling parameter
    - `X-Top-P`: Top-P (nucleus) sampling parameter
    - `X-Min-P`: Minimum probability for token consideration

    - **Body**: Raw JSON
    ```
    {
        "messages": [
            {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful AI assistant."},
            {"role": "user", "content": "Can you provide ways to eat combinations of bananas and dragonfruits?"}, 
            {"role": "assistant", "content": "Sure! Here are some ways to eat bananas and dragonfruits together: 1. Banana and dragonfruit smoothie: Blend bananas and dragonfruits together with some milk and honey. 2. Banana and dragonfruit salad: Mix sliced bananas and dragonfruits together with some lemon juice and honey."}, 
            {"role": "user", "content": "What about solving an 2x + 3 = 7 equation?"}
        ]
    }
    ```

    - **Response**: JSON object containing the generated completion

2. `/completions_stream` (POST): Stream completions for given messages.

    - **Headers**: Same as /completions
    - **Body**: Same as /completions
    - **Response**: Server-Sent Events (SSE) stream of generated text

3. `/health` (GET): Check the health and get information about the loaded model.

    - **Body**: None
    - **Response**: JSON object containing model and server health information
        ```
        {
            "model_info": {
                "architecture": "['MistralForCausalLM']",
                "device": "cuda",
                "hidden_activation": "silu",
                "hidden_dimensions": "128",
                "hidden_size": "5120",
                "intermediate_size": "14336",
                "is_quantized": true,
                "max_position_embeddings": "1024000",
                "max_seq_length": "1000000000000000019884624838656",
                "memory_footprint": "8137789440",
                "model_id": "mistralai/Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407",
                "model_type": "mistral",
                "model_vocab_size": "131072",
                "number_of_attention_heads": "32",
                "number_of_hidden_layers": "40",
                "number_of_key_value_heads": "8",
                "quant_method": "QuantizationMethod.BITS_AND_BYTES",
                "quantization_config": "BitsAndBytesConfig {
                        \"_load_in_4bit\": true,
                        \"_load_in_8bit\": false,
                        \"bnb_4bit_compute_dtype\": \"float32\",
                        \"bnb_4bit_quant_storage\": \"uint8\",
                        \"bnb_4bit_quant_type\": \"fp4\",
                        \"bnb_4bit_use_double_quant\": false,
                        \"llm_int8_enable_fp32_cpu_offload\": false,
                        \"llm_int8_has_fp16_weight\": false,
                        \"llm_int8_skip_modules\": null,
                        \"llm_int8_threshold\": 6.0,
                        \"load_in_4bit\": true,
                        \"load_in_8bit\": false,
                        \"quant_method\": \"bitsandbytes\"
                    }",
                "tokenizer": "mistralai/Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407",
                "tokenizer_vocab_size": "131072",
                "torch_dtype": "torch.bfloat16",
                "transformers_version": "4.43.0.dev0"
            },
            "status": "ok"
        }
        ```

4. `/hf_config_reader_api` (POST): Read values from the configuration.

    - **Body**: JSON object with a keys array specifying which config values to read
        ```
        {
            "keys": [
                "model_id",
                "quantize",
                "quant_level",
                "torch_device_map",
                "torch_dtype",
                "use_flash_attention_2",
                "max_new_tokens"
            ]
        }
        ```
        
    - **Response**: JSON object containing the requested configuration values
        ```
        {
            "success": true,
            "values": {
                "max_new_tokens": 2048,
                "model_id": "microsoft/Phi-3-mini-128k-instruct",
                "quant_level": "int8",
                "quantize": "bitsandbytes",
                "torch_device_map": "cuda",
                "torch_dtype": "auto",
                "use_flash_attention_2": true
            }
        }
        ```

5. `/hf_config_writer_api` (POST): Write values to the configuration.

    - **Body**: JSON object with key-value pairs to update in the configuration
        ```
        {
            "config_updates": {
                "model_id":"microsoft/Phi-3-mini-128k-instruct",
                "quant_level":"int4"
            }
        }
        ```
    - **Response**: JSON object indicating success and whether a restart is required
        ```
        {
            "restart_required": true,
            "success": true
        }
        ```

6. `/restart_server` (GET): Restart the LLM server.

    - **Body**: None
    - **Response**: JSON object indicating success or error
        ```
        {
            "success": true
        }
        ```

## Configuration

The server uses a `hf_config.json` file to store and manage configurations. You can modify this file directly or use the provided API endpoints to update settings.

## Error Handling and Logging

Errors are logged to `hf_server_log.log`. The log file uses a rotating file handler, keeping the most recent logs and discarding older ones.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

Commit message:

Added GGUF support as per HF-documentation

README.md, after:

# HF-Waitress

HF-Waitress is a powerful and flexible server application for deploying and interacting with Hugging Face Transformers models. It simplifies the process of running open-source Large Language Models (LLMs) locally, addressing common pain points in model deployment and usage.

## Key Features

- **On-the-fly, in-place quantization**: Supports int8 & int4 quantization via BitsAndBytes and Quanto.
- **Model Agnosticism**: Compatible with any HF-Transformers format LLM.
- **Configuration Management**: Uses `config.json` to store settings, allowing for easy configuration and persistence across runs.
- **Error Handling**: Detailed logging and traceback reporting via centralized error-handling functions.
- **Health Endpoint**: Provides valuable information about the loaded model and server health.
- **Concurrency Control**: Uses semaphores for selective concurrency while taking advantage of semaphore-native queueing.
- **Streaming Responses**: Supports both standard and streaming completions.

## Dependencies

1. Python v3.10.x or above

2. PyTorch:

    **If you're planning to use your GPU to run LLMs, make sure to install the GPU drivers and CUDA/ROCm toolkits as appropriate for your setup, and only then proceed with PyTorch setup below**

    Download and install the PyTorch version appropriate for your system: https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/

3. (optional) If attempting to use Flash Attention 2, specific Nvidia GPUs are required. Check the [official-repo](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/flash-attention?tab=readme-ov-file#installation-and-features) for requirements and installation instructions.

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/abgulati/hf-waitress
    cd hf-waitress
    ```

2. Install the required dependencies:

    ```
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Usage

To start the server, run:

```
python hf_waitress.py [arguments]
```
*launch-arguments are optional, even on the first run!*

### Command-line Arguments

- `--model_id`: The model ID in HF-Transformers format - see below for details.
- `--access_gated`: Set to True if accessing gated models you're approved for.
- `--access_token`: Your Hugging Face Access Token.
- `--gguf`: Add this flag if attempting to load a GGUF model, defaults to False - [Only specific models and quants](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/gguf)
- `--gguf_model_id`: GGUF repository ID, defaults to None - [Only specific models and quants](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/gguf)
- `--gguf_filename`: Specific GGUF filename, defaults to None - [Only specific models and quants](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/gguf)
- `--quantize`: Quantization method (e.g., 'bitsandbytes', 'quanto', or 'n' for none).
- `--quant_level`: Quantization level (e.g., 'int8', 'int4').
- `--push_to_hub`: Push quantized model to Hugging Face Hub.
- `--torch_device_map`: Specify inference device (e.g., 'cuda', 'cpu').
- `--torch_dtype`: Specify model tensor type.
- `--trust_remote_code`: Allow execution of custom code from the model's repository.
- `--use_flash_attention_2`: Attempt to use Flash Attention 2 - [Only for specific Nvidia GPUs](https://github.com/Dao-AILab/flash-attention?tab=readme-ov-file#installation-and-features) 
- `--pipeline_task`: Specify the pipeline task (default: 'text-generation').
- `--max_new_tokens`: Maximum number of tokens to generate.
- `--return_full_text`: Return the full text including the prompt.
- `--temperature`: Set LLM temperature (0.0 to 2.0).
- `--do_sample`: Perform sampling when selecting response tokens.
- `--top_k`, `--top_p`, `--min_p`: Token selection parameters.
- `--port`: Specify the server port (default: 9069).
- `--reset_to_defaults`: Reset all settings to default values.

### The required `model_id` can typically be obtained one of two ways, both of which involve going to the model's HuggingFace.co page:

1. Simply make use of the copy function provided by HuggingFace:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/abgulati/hf-server/blob/main/images/hf-copy.png"  align="center">
</p>

2. Or, scroll further down the model card and copy the model_id from the code sample provided by the model creators:

<p align="center">
<img src="https://github.com/abgulati/hf-server/blob/main/images/hf-sample.png"  align="center">
</p>

## API Endpoints

### Overview:

1. `/completions` (POST): Generate completions for given messages.
2. `/completions_stream` (POST): Stream completions for given messages.
3. `/health` (GET): Check the health and get information about the loaded model.
4. `/hf_config_reader_api` (POST): Read values from the configuration.
5. `/hf_config_writer_api` (POST): Write values to the configuration.
6. `/restart_server` (GET): Restart the LLM server.


### Details:

1. `/completions` (POST): Generate completions for given messages.

    - **Headers**:
    - `Content-Type: application/json`
    - `X-Max-New-Tokens`: Maximum number of tokens to generate
    - `X-Return-Full-Text`: Whether to return the full text including the prompt
    - `X-Temperature`: Temperature for text generation (0.0 to 2.0)
    - `X-Do-Sample`: Whether to use sampling for text generation
    - `X-Top-K`: Top-K sampling parameter
    - `X-Top-P`: Top-P (nucleus) sampling parameter
    - `X-Min-P`: Minimum probability for token consideration

    - **Body**: Raw JSON
    ```
    {
        "messages": [
            {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful AI assistant."},
            {"role": "user", "content": "Can you provide ways to eat combinations of bananas and dragonfruits?"}, 
            {"role": "assistant", "content": "Sure! Here are some ways to eat bananas and dragonfruits together: 1. Banana and dragonfruit smoothie: Blend bananas and dragonfruits together with some milk and honey. 2. Banana and dragonfruit salad: Mix sliced bananas and dragonfruits together with some lemon juice and honey."}, 
            {"role": "user", "content": "What about solving an 2x + 3 = 7 equation?"}
        ]
    }
    ```

    - **Response**: JSON object containing the generated completion

2. `/completions_stream` (POST): Stream completions for given messages.

    - **Headers**: Same as /completions
    - **Body**: Same as /completions
    - **Response**: Server-Sent Events (SSE) stream of generated text

3. `/health` (GET): Check the health and get information about the loaded model.

    - **Body**: None
    - **Response**: JSON object containing model and server health information
        ```
        {
            "model_info": {
                "architecture": "['MistralForCausalLM']",
                "device": "cuda",
                "hidden_activation": "silu",
                "hidden_dimensions": "128",
                "hidden_size": "5120",
                "intermediate_size": "14336",
                "is_quantized": true,
                "max_position_embeddings": "1024000",
                "max_seq_length": "1000000000000000019884624838656",
                "memory_footprint": "8137789440",
                "model_id": "mistralai/Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407",
                "model_type": "mistral",
                "model_vocab_size": "131072",
                "number_of_attention_heads": "32",
                "number_of_hidden_layers": "40",
                "number_of_key_value_heads": "8",
                "quant_method": "QuantizationMethod.BITS_AND_BYTES",
                "quantization_config": "BitsAndBytesConfig {
                        \"_load_in_4bit\": true,
                        \"_load_in_8bit\": false,
                        \"bnb_4bit_compute_dtype\": \"float32\",
                        \"bnb_4bit_quant_storage\": \"uint8\",
                        \"bnb_4bit_quant_type\": \"fp4\",
                        \"bnb_4bit_use_double_quant\": false,
                        \"llm_int8_enable_fp32_cpu_offload\": false,
                        \"llm_int8_has_fp16_weight\": false,
                        \"llm_int8_skip_modules\": null,
                        \"llm_int8_threshold\": 6.0,
                        \"load_in_4bit\": true,
                        \"load_in_8bit\": false,
                        \"quant_method\": \"bitsandbytes\"
                    }",
                "tokenizer": "mistralai/Mistral-Nemo-Instruct-2407",
                "tokenizer_vocab_size": "131072",
                "torch_dtype": "torch.bfloat16",
                "transformers_version": "4.43.0.dev0"
            },
            "status": "ok"
        }
        ```

4. `/hf_config_reader_api` (POST): Read values from the configuration.

    - **Body**: JSON object with a keys array specifying which config values to read
        ```
        {
            "keys": [
                "model_id",
                "quantize",
                "quant_level",
                "torch_device_map",
                "torch_dtype",
                "use_flash_attention_2",
                "max_new_tokens"
            ]
        }
        ```
        
    - **Response**: JSON object containing the requested configuration values
        ```
        {
            "success": true,
            "values": {
                "max_new_tokens": 2048,
                "model_id": "microsoft/Phi-3-mini-128k-instruct",
                "quant_level": "int8",
                "quantize": "bitsandbytes",
                "torch_device_map": "cuda",
                "torch_dtype": "auto",
                "use_flash_attention_2": true
            }
        }
        ```

5. `/hf_config_writer_api` (POST): Write values to the configuration.

    - **Body**: JSON object with key-value pairs to update in the configuration
        ```
        {
            "config_updates": {
                "model_id":"microsoft/Phi-3-mini-128k-instruct",
                "quant_level":"int4"
            }
        }
        ```
    - **Response**: JSON object indicating success and whether a restart is required
        ```
        {
            "restart_required": true,
            "success": true
        }
        ```

6. `/restart_server` (GET): Restart the LLM server.

    - **Body**: None
    - **Response**: JSON object indicating success or error
        ```
        {
            "success": true
        }
        ```

## Configuration

The server uses a `hf_config.json` file to store and manage configurations. You can modify this file directly or use the provided API endpoints to update settings.

## Error Handling and Logging

Errors are logged to `hf_server_log.log`. The log file uses a rotating file handler, keeping the most recent logs and discarding older ones.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.
